Create root user documentation (#1503)
astronomer/docs: software/create-a-root-user.md

---
title: 'Create a root user on Astronomer Software'
sidebar_label: 'Create a root user'
id: create-a-root-user
description: Learn how to create a root user with all possible permissions on Astronomer Software. 
---

By default, the first user to log in to an Astronomer Software installation becomes a System Admin in that installation. If your organization has strong security requirements, you can create a single root user and give only this user permissions to create new System Admins on your installation. 

## Create the root user 

To create a root user, add the following lines to your `config.yaml` file:

```yaml

> global:
> 	rootAdmin:
> 	    username: <your-root-user-email-address>

Author: ```suggestion
global:
   rootAdmin:
          username: <your-root-user-email-address>
```

>    rootAdmin:
>           username: <your-root-user-email-address>

Author: ```suggestion
   rootAdmin:
          username: <your-root-user-email-address>
```

description: Learn how to create a root user with all possible permissions on Astronomer Software. 
---

By default, the first user to log in to an Astronomer Software installation becomes a System Admin in that installation. If your organization has strong security requirements, you can create a single root user and give only this user permissions to create new System Admins on your installation. 

## Create the root user 

To create a root user, add the following lines to your `config.yaml` file:

```yaml
global:
   rootAdmin:
          username: <your-root-user-email-address>
```

After saving your changes, apply the configuration change. See [Apply a config change](apply-platform-config.md).

By default, Astronomer generates a password for your root user email address. This password and email address are stored as Kubernetes secrets on your Astronomer installation. 

After you apply the configuration change, Helm provides a command for how to retrieve these the values of these secrets. Retrieve the password and use the new **Root Admin Login** button on the Software login page to access Astronomer Software as the root user. 

## Customize the root user's password

> ### Rotate the root user's password

Author: To be documented

description: Learn how to create a root user with all possible permissions on Astronomer Software. 
---

By default, the first user to log in to an Astronomer Software installation becomes a System Admin in that installation. If your organization has strong security requirements, you can create a single root user and give only this user permissions to create new System Admins on your installation. 

## Create the root user 

To create a root user, add the following lines to your `config.yaml` file:

```yaml
global:
   rootAdmin:
          username: <your-root-user-email-address>
```

After saving your changes, apply the configuration change. See [Apply a config change](apply-platform-config.md).

By default, Astronomer generates a password for your root user email address. This password and email address are stored as Kubernetes secrets on your Astronomer installation. 

After you apply the configuration change, Helm provides a command for how to retrieve these the values of these secrets. To log in to Astronomer Software as the root user, retrieve the password and use the new **Root Admin Login** button on the Software login page.

## Customize the root user's password

> 

Author: ```suggestion

You might want to use a custom root user password to ensure that someone who has recently left your organization no longer has access to the root user. 

```

---
title: 'Create a root user on Astronomer Software'
sidebar_label: 'Create a root user'
id: create-a-root-user
description: Learn how to create a root user with all possible permissions on Astronomer Software. 
---

> By default, the first user to log in to an Astronomer Software installation becomes a System Admin in that installation. If your organization has strong security requirements, you can create a single root user and give only this user permissions to create new System Admins on your installation. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, the first user to log in to an Astronomer Software installation is assigned the System Admin role for the installation. If your organization has strong security requirements, you can create a single root user and allow only this user permission to assign System Admin roles on your installation. 
```

## Create the root user 

To create a root user, add the following lines to your `config.yaml` file:

```yaml
global:
   rootAdmin:
          username: <your-root-user-email-address>
```

After saving your changes, apply the configuration change. See [Apply a config change](apply-platform-config.md).

By default, Astronomer generates a password for your root user email address. This password and email address are stored as Kubernetes secrets on your Astronomer installation. 

> After you apply the configuration change, Helm provides a command for how to retrieve these the values of these secrets. To log in to Astronomer Software as the root user, retrieve the password and use the new **Root Admin Login** button on the Software login page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After you apply the configuration change, Helm provides a command for retrieving the secret values. To log in to Astronomer Software as the root user, retrieve the password and click **Root Admin Login** on the Software login page.
```

## Customize the root user's password

You might want to use a custom root user password to ensure that someone who has recently left your organization no longer has access to the root user. 

To configure a custom password for the root user, run the following command: 

```sh
kubectl patch secret -n <your-platform-namespace> astronomer-root-admin-credentials --type=json -p='[{ "op" : "replace" , "path" : "/data/password" , "value" : "'$(echo -n "<your-new-password>" | base64)'"}]' && kubectl create job --from=cronjob/<your-release-name>-update-root-admin-password-cronjob manual3 -n <your-platform-namespace>
```

## Limit System-level user creation

> A common use case for having a root user is to limit System-level user creation to only a single, tightly-controlled user. To configure your system this way, add the following lines to your `config.yaml` file:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A common use case for having a root user is to limit system-level user creation to a single user. To configure your system this way, add the following lines to your `config.yaml` file:
```

```yaml
astronomer:
  houston:
    config:
      roles:
        SYSTEM_ADMIN:
          permissions:
            system.iam.updateSystemLevelPermissions: false
        SYSTEM_ROOT_ADMIN:
          permissions:
            system.iam.updateSystemLevelPermissions: true
```

After saving your changes, apply the configuration change. See [Apply a config change](apply-platform-config.md).

> See [Customize role permissions](manage-platform-users.md#customize-role-permissions) for how to further customize role permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To learn more about customizing role permissions, see [Customize role permissions](manage-platform-users.md#customize-role-permissions) .
```
